Yes, the default theme is *very* ugly.  Generic black-text-white-background.
But no fear: IFS is very versatile when it comes to skins and themes!

The key lies in one folder... themes/
When you go to the theme-changing area (Mambo admin -> Main -> Theme Manager),
you'll be presented with some themes to choose from.  Ignore the "theme preview"
unless someone's had the time to take a screenshot of the theme...
But now, the million-dollar question: how do you add a theme?  And, before that,
how do you *make* a theme?

As I said, the answer lies in the themes/ folder.  If you go there, you'll see
three files... default.css, default-head.php, and default-main.php.  Notice a
pattern?  Yep, those are the three files that make up the "default" theme.
The Theme Manager will even check that folder to see what themes are present...
there's no need to install a theme, apart from placing it in the folder.

(theme name).css
    This is where the CSS for the theme lives.  It's a bit of a mess right now,
    but cleaning it up is pretty high on my to-do list... the tags you should be
    most concerned about are a, articlehead, componentHeading, h1, h2,
                                               highlight, newsarticle, p, smallgrey, td
    Not to say that the rest aren't important... but those are the "main" ones
    that get used the most.  It'll probably be a while before you get everything
    perfect... sorry =(

(theme name)-head.php
    Basically contains the page headers and the fleet banner.  Make sure you
    update the CSS (the theme manager won't automatically use your new CSS
    file!).  The default theme identifies this as a XHTML page; IFS isn't fully
    compliant yet, but I'm working on XHTML 1.0 Transition compliance.
    The three variables, $newstop $logintop and $searchtop, can contain the path
    to image files for section headings (can you guess which ones?), if you
    choose to use them.
    The 'if ($pop != "y")' statement at the bottom is also important: it makes
    sure your banner does *not* display on popup pages, since that just clutters
    things.

(theme name)-main.php
    The layout of this page is really up to you... it's the include statements
    that make the page work.  The following files need to be included:
        pathway.php                    Keep this right above the menu...
        mainmenu.php                Yep, it's the main menu.  How did you guess??
        leftComponent.php	Other components that appear on the left column
        newsflash.php		The one-liner newsflashes
        mainbody.php		The meat of the page
        rightComponent               Stuff on the right column
        banners.php                    One random banner, from the list specified in
                                                    Mambo admin

    Other notes... left/right Components are specified in Mambo admin.  You
    *could* publish everything on the left side, and not even need to include
    the rightComponent.php file (or vice versa).

There isn't too much for me to say about themes, apart from what's already been
said.  If you want to tweak the layout of mainbody stuff, most of it is in
classes/html/.  HTML for IFS components isn't so nicely seperated (it's also on
my to-do list); you'll have to go into tf/ and figure out where stuff is.

Enjoy!
